# Frontend Build: React App

This project provides the front-end code for new AEM projects using the React Decoupled JS archetype option. In this mode, the react app will no longer be bundled into clientlibs, but be built and deploeyed through [AEM as a Cloud Service's front-end pipeline](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/sites/administering/site-creation/enable-front-end-pipeline.html?lang=en).

## Usage

To get started, create a new project with the [AEM Project Archetype](https://github.com/adobe/aem-project-archetype) using the decoupled frontend module

```
mvn -B org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-archetype-plugin:3.2.1:generate \
 -D archetypeGroupId=com.adobe.aem \
 -D archetypeArtifactId=aem-project-archetype \
 -D archetypeVersion=40 \
 -D appTitle="My Site" \
 -D appId="mysite" \
 -D groupId="com.mysite" \
 -D frontendModule="decoupled"
```

This will generate a SPA project with the front-end pipeline preconfigured.

In the generated project, with your [AEM instance running locally](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-learn/cloud-service/local-development-environment-set-up/aem-runtime.html?lang=en), run `mvn install -PautoInstallPackage`.

Next create a new repository from this template, clone it, install it and run it

```
npm install
npm run start
```

A post install script will ask for the Application Id (appId), which must be the same as before when creating the project from the archetype ("mysite").

This is in particular important as the script adjusts the references to the default content, the resource-type mappings and the package name in the prroject.

## Details

### Commands

The project and commands are based on Create-React-App.

Commands:

- `npm run start` Starts the development server. The page can be viewed directly on `localhost:3000`, or through the AEM editor.
- `npm run build` Builds a production build to deploy via frontend pipeline TODO how does this deploy step actually work

### ENV File

The file `.env` allows for configuration of the project. Ensure that these variables are set to the correct values, in particular the authorization header.

Most of the environment variables are described in the create react app docs at https://create-react-app.dev/docs/advanced-configuration/.

The following environment variables are specific to this project:

```dotenv
REACT_APP_API_HOST=http://localhost:4502 # The AEM instance that the proxy (see next section) forwards requests to in dev mode
REACT_APP_AEM_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER='Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=' # Authorization header for AEM
REACT_APP_ROOT=/content/aem-react-spa/us/en/home.html # The page that the react app represents
REACT_APP_PAGE_MODEL_PATH=/content/aem-react-spa/us/en.model.json # the page model path on aem for the root page of the react app
REACT_APP_PROXY_ENABLED=true # enable/disable the proxy in LocalDevModelClient (see next section)
```


### Proxy

When accessing the page directly on `localhost:3000`, the webpack development server acts as a proxy to the AEM content. This is to avoid CORS errors when trying to access the AEM instance directly. The proxy's configuration can be seen in `src/LocalDevModelClient.js`. Using the proxy requires correct configuration of the variables in `.env`.

### Build output

It is important that the output of the `npm run build` command is not modified. The config in `scripts/webpack.config.js` overrides the default Create-React-App config to output the files in a way that the AEM project generated by the archetype expects. Changing the filenames could result in unexpected behaviour and will require additional configuration steps in AEM.

### Deployment

TODO
